How to Create an Object in Java

To create an object in Java, you use the new keyword followed by the class name and parentheses. For example:
ClassName objectName = new ClassName();
Example:
Dog myDog = new Dog();


What is the use of the new keyword in Java

The new keyword is used to create new objects in Java. It allocates memory for the object on the heap and initializes the object by calling its constructor.


What are the different types of variables in Java

Instance Variables: Variables defined inside a class but outside any method. They are unique to each instance of a class.
Class Variables (Static Variables): Variables declared with the static keyword inside a class but outside any method. They are shared among all instances of a class.
Local Variables: Variables declared inside a method, constructor, or block. They are only accessible within that method, constructor, or block.
Parameters: Variables that are passed to methods or constructors.


What is the difference between Instance variables and Local variables

Instance Variables:
Declared inside a class but outside any method.
Each instance of the class has its own copy.
They have a default value if not initialized.
Local Variables:
Declared inside a method, constructor, or block.
Only accessible within the method, constructor, or block they are declared in.
Do not have a default value and must be initialized before use.


In which area memory is allocated for instance variables and local variables

Instance Variables: Memory is allocated in the heap.
Local Variables: Memory is allocated in the stack.


What is method overloading?

Method overloading is a feature in Java that allows a class to have more than one method with the same name, as long as their parameter lists are different. It is a type of polymorphism.
Example:

public class MathUtils {
    public int add(int a, int b) {
        return a + b;
    }

    public double add(double a, double b) {
        return a + b;
    }
}