What is Git?

Git is a distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency. It allows multiple developers to work on a project simultaneously without interfering with each other's changes.


What do you understand by the term ‘Version Control System’?

A Version Control System (VCS) is a tool that helps manage changes to source code over time. It keeps track of every modification to the code in a special kind of database. If a mistake is made, developers can turn back the clock and compare earlier versions of the code to help fix the mistake while minimizing disruption to all team members.


What is GitHub?

GitHub is a web-based platform used for version control and collaborative development. It hosts Git repositories and provides a web-based graphical interface and various collaboration features such as bug tracking, feature requests, task management, and wikis for every project.


Mention some popular Git hosting services:

GitHub
GitLab
Bitbucket
SourceForge
AWS CodeCommit


Different types of version control system:

Local Version Control Systems: Keep track of files within the local system.
Centralized Version Control Systems (CVCS): Use a single server to store all the versions of the project files.
Distributed Version Control Systems (DVCS): Each contributor has a local copy of the entire project history.


What benefits come with using GIT?

Distributed development
Data integrity
Speed and performance
Branching and merging support
Flexibility
Strong community support


What is a Git repository?

A Git repository is a storage space where your project’s files and their complete history are stored. It can be stored locally on a computer or on a remote server.


How can you initialize a repository in Git?

To initialize a Git repository, navigate to your project’s directory in the terminal and run the following command:
git init
This command creates a new subdirectory named .git that contains all the necessary metadata for the repository.